README.md, before:

# <img src="https://files.monicz.dev/osm/openstreetmap-ng.webp" alt="OpenStreetMap-NG logo" align="left" height="96px"> OpenStreetMap-NG

[![Discord Developers Chat](https://shields.monicz.dev/discord/1246123404613128203?logo=discord&logoColor=FFF&label=Developers&color=5865F2&cacheSeconds=600)](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB)
[![Matrix Developers Chat](https://shields.monicz.dev/matrix/openstreetmap-ng%3Amatrix.org?logo=matrix&label=Developers&color=111&cacheSeconds=600)](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org)
[![Liberapay Patrons](https://shields.monicz.dev/liberapay/patrons/Zaczero?logo=liberapay&label=Patrons)](https://liberapay.com/Zaczero/)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://shields.monicz.dev/github/sponsors/Zaczero?logo=github&label=Sponsors&color=%23db61a2)](https://github.com/sponsors/Zaczero)
[![GitHub Stars](https://shields.monicz.dev/github/stars/Zaczero/openstreetmap-ng?style=social)](https://github.com/Zaczero/openstreetmap-ng)

Welcome to OpenStreetMap-NG, an innovative unofficial Python fork of [openstreetmap.org](https://openstreetmap.org). Our mission is to revolutionize the map and provide a better experience for all users. It is simply the Next Generation of OpenStreetMap.

We will provide a demo website **at the end of 2024**. We are working hard on the final core features — stay tuned!

🛈 This initiative is not affiliated with the OpenStreetMap Foundation.

## 🎯 Main Goals

\- **New Features**\
Implement long-awaited features and bring OpenStreetMap into the modern era. With a strong focus on innovation, we are committed to delivering a truly next-gen experience for users and programmers.

\- **Performance**\
Create a performant and responsive user and API experience. Leveraging modern technologies and CPython native modules, featuring a blazing-fast V2 map engine and optimized system architecture.

\- **Privacy**\
Enhance user privacy through built-in data protection mechanisms and secure defaults for all third-party integrations. We respect users' data and privacy choices.

\- **Accessibility**\
Make OpenStreetMap more accessible to everyone. Using the latest browser standards and newly designed interfaces, we make the map a more enjoyable and welcoming place.

\- **Openness**\
Lower barriers to entry and empower the developer community. Following Keep-It-Simple principles, OpenStreetMap-NG is designed in a simple and hackable way, making contributing easy and fun.

## 📢 Stay Updated

Follow our development journey through:

\- **Development Blog**\
Read updates and watch videos on the ongoing development efforts:\
[OpenStreetMap Diary](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/NorthCrab/diary) ([RSS Feed](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/NorthCrab/diary/rss))

\- **Developers Chat**\
Discuss, share ideas, and collaborate with other contributors:\
[Discord](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB) or [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org) — *bridged together*

## ⭐ Join Us

To get started coding, see the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/Zaczero/openstreetmap-ng/wiki/Contributing:-Getting-Started) on the GitHub wiki. This wiki is the primary source of information for new contributors. We officially support Linux, macOS, and Windows (WSL2) operating systems.

We also invite you to join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB) or [Matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org) to receive support and chat with others — both platforms are bridged together, so you will see the same messages in either one. These are our primary communication channels. They are free to join, and we are always happy to help you get started!

## 🌍 Community Project

OpenStreetMap-NG is an open, community-driven project. The best ideas come from people just like you! We believe the community is the heart of OpenStreetMap and that everyone should have an equal say.

This project is funded entirely through community donations. We are not sponsored nor endorsed by the OpenStreetMap Foundation. We are everyday mappers who want to make a difference.

## 🛣️ TODOs: Public Release

The following table outlines the notable features that need to be finished before the first public release of OpenStreetMap-NG. This represents our roadmap to achieving feature parity with the current OpenStreetMap Ruby implementation.

**Release ETA**: End of 2024

| Missing Feature | Status |
|---------|---------|
| Third-Party Authorization | 95% Complete (missing: Facebook) |
| Email Notification Templates | 20% Complete |
| Reporting System | Planned |
| Mobile Responsiveness | 30% Complete |
| Dark Theme | 30% Complete |

---

<p align="center">
<i>OpenStreetMap-NG</i><br>
<i>Made with love and care.</i><br>
— 🫂 —
</p>

Commit message:

Update links and mention contributor incentives.

README.md, after:

# <img src="https://files.monicz.dev/osm/openstreetmap-ng.webp" alt="OpenStreetMap-NG logo" align="left" height="96px"> OpenStreetMap-NG

[![Discord Developers Chat](https://shields.monicz.dev/discord/1246123404613128203?logo=discord&logoColor=FFF&label=Developers&color=5865F2&cacheSeconds=600)](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB)
[![Matrix Developers Chat](https://shields.monicz.dev/matrix/openstreetmap-ng%3Amatrix.org?logo=matrix&label=Developers&color=111&cacheSeconds=600)](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org)
[![Liberapay Patrons](https://shields.monicz.dev/liberapay/patrons/Zaczero?logo=liberapay&label=Patrons)](https://liberapay.com/Zaczero/)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://shields.monicz.dev/github/sponsors/Zaczero?logo=github&label=Sponsors&color=%23db61a2)](https://github.com/sponsors/Zaczero)
[![GitHub Stars](https://shields.monicz.dev/github/stars/openstreetmap-ng/openstreetmap-ng?style=social)](https://github.com/openstreetmap-ng/openstreetmap-ng)

Welcome to OpenStreetMap-NG, an innovative unofficial Python fork of [openstreetmap.org](https://openstreetmap.org). Our mission is to revolutionize the map and provide a better experience for all users. It is simply the Next Generation of OpenStreetMap.

We will provide a demo website **at the end of 2024**. We are working hard on the final core features — stay tuned!

🛈 This initiative is not affiliated with the OpenStreetMap Foundation.

## 🎯 Main Goals

\- **New Features**\
Implement long-awaited features and bring OpenStreetMap into the modern era. With a strong focus on innovation, we are committed to delivering a truly next-gen experience for users and programmers.

\- **Performance**\
Create a performant and responsive user and API experience. Leveraging modern technologies and CPython native modules, featuring a blazing-fast V2 map engine and optimized system architecture.

\- **Privacy**\
Enhance user privacy through built-in data protection mechanisms and secure defaults for all third-party integrations. We respect users' data and privacy choices.

\- **Accessibility**\
Make OpenStreetMap more accessible to everyone. Using the latest browser standards and newly designed interfaces, we make the map a more enjoyable and welcoming place.

\- **Openness**\
Lower barriers to entry and empower the developer community. Following Keep-It-Simple principles, OpenStreetMap-NG is designed in a simple and hackable way, making contributing easy and fun.

## 📢 Stay Updated

Follow our development journey through:

\- **Development Blog**\
Read updates and watch videos on the ongoing development efforts:\
[OpenStreetMap Diary](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/NorthCrab/diary) ([RSS Feed](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/NorthCrab/diary/rss))

\- **Developers Chat**\
Discuss, share ideas, and collaborate with other contributors:\
[Discord](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB) or [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org) — *bridged together*

## ⭐ Join Us (Contributing)

To get started coding, see
the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/openstreetmap-ng/openstreetmap-ng/wiki/Contributing:-Getting-Started) on the
GitHub wiki. This wiki is the primary source of information for new contributors. We officially support Linux, macOS,
and Windows (WSL2) operating systems.

We also invite you to join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/GM89hdjSCB) or [Matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/#openstreetmap-ng:matrix.org) to receive support and chat with others — both platforms are bridged together, so you will see the same messages in either one. These are our primary communication channels. They are free to join, and we are always happy to help you get started!

There are several contributor incentives available, including a unique profile badge, cash bounties, and free JetBrains
IDE subscriptions for active code
contributors. [Read more here](https://github.com/openstreetmap-ng/openstreetmap-ng/wiki/Contributor-Incentives).

## 🌍 Community Project

OpenStreetMap-NG is an open, community-driven project. The best ideas come from people just like you! We believe the community is the heart of OpenStreetMap and that everyone should have an equal say.

This project is funded entirely through community donations. We are not sponsored nor endorsed by the OpenStreetMap Foundation. We are everyday mappers who want to make a difference.

## 🛣️ TODOs: Public Release

The following table outlines the notable features that need to be finished before the first public release of OpenStreetMap-NG. This represents our roadmap to achieving feature parity with the current OpenStreetMap Ruby implementation.

**Release ETA**: End of 2024

| Missing Feature | Status |
|---------|---------|
| Third-Party Authorization | 95% Complete (missing: Facebook) |
| Email Notification Templates | 20% Complete |
| Reporting System | Planned |
| Mobile Responsiveness | 30% Complete |
| Dark Theme | 30% Complete |

---

<p align="center">
<i>OpenStreetMap-NG</i><br>
<i>Made with love and care.</i><br>
— 🫂 —
</p>
